docs/content/docs/getting-started/setup.md, before:

+++
title = "Setting up"

sort_by = "weight"
weight = 5
template = "docs/page.html"

[extra]
toc = true
top = false
+++

## Requirements

You'll need a recent:

- [Rustup](https://rustup.rs/) setup for Rust
- Android NDK / XCode setup for the target - and device or simulator set up
- [flutter](https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install)

## Setup

You need `cargo make` for managing and building the native core artefacts. Install via
`cargo install cargo-make`

Then you run the init once in the root of the repository:

`cargo make setup`

You also need to build the core SDK once first:

## Building for SDK

Whenever the native SDK changed, you need to (re)build the artifacts. To do that you can use the one of following commands

`cargo make android`

`cargo make ios`

`cargo make desktop`

.Note: currently only android is fully supported. Plumbing for iOS is existing but not tested, Web, Linux, Mac, Windows and are platforms have not been configured yet.

## Running the App

Once the SDK is rebuilded, you can run the flutter as usual on your device or emulator per:

F5 in VS Code or `flutter run` in `app` directory

If you want to run flutter as desktop in windows:

`flutter run -d windows`

## Speed up Building

It takes a long time to execute full build.
You can rebuild only changes of source files to save your building time meaningfully.

`cargo make android-dev`
It can reduce the size in architecture.
This will build only `x86_64` of rust library.
(build only rust) `682.6s` -> `120.31s`

`cargo make --profile release android-dev`
It can reduce the size by release mode.
It can reduce the size to about a half, because size in release mode is smaller than one in debug mode.

`flutter run --no-build`
(only flutter changed) `85.0s` -> `42.6s`

## Running Tests

We have a test suite to run unit tests and integration tests. This is run via the CI to ensure consistency and every features is expected to add further tests to the suite. You can run the tests via:

Commit message:

Additional Linux build trouble shooting docs

docs/content/docs/getting-started/setup.md, after:

+++
title = "Setting up"

sort_by = "weight"
weight = 5
template = "docs/page.html"

[extra]
toc = true
top = false
+++

## Requirements

You'll need a recent:

- [Rustup](https://rustup.rs/) setup for Rust
- Android NDK / XCode setup for the target - and device or simulator set up
- [flutter](https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install)
- on Linux you additionally need: `libsecret-1-0` ( & `libsecret-1-dev`) and `libjsoncpp-dev`

## Setup

You need `cargo make` for managing and building the native core artefacts. Install via
`cargo install cargo-make`

Then you run the init once in the root of the repository:

`cargo make setup`

You also need to build the core SDK once first:

## Building for SDK

Whenever the native SDK changed, you need to (re)build the artifacts. To do that you can use the one of following commands

`cargo make android`

`cargo make ios`

`cargo make desktop`

.Note: currently only android is fully supported. Plumbing for iOS is existing but not tested, Web, Linux, Mac, Windows and are platforms have not been configured yet.

## Running the App

Once the SDK is rebuilded, you can run the flutter as usual on your device or emulator per:

F5 in VS Code or `flutter run` in `app` directory

If you want to run flutter as desktop in windows:

`flutter run -d windows`

## Speed up Building

It takes a long time to execute full build.
You can rebuild only changes of source files to save your building time meaningfully.

`cargo make android-dev`
It can reduce the size in architecture.
This will build only `x86_64` of rust library.
(build only rust) `682.6s` -> `120.31s`

`cargo make --profile release android-dev`
It can reduce the size by release mode.
It can reduce the size to about a half, because size in release mode is smaller than one in debug mode.

`flutter run --no-build`
(only flutter changed) `85.0s` -> `42.6s`

## Running Tests

We have a test suite to run unit tests and integration tests. This is run via the CI to ensure consistency and every features is expected to add further tests to the suite. You can run the tests via:
