+++
title = " v1.23.1116"
template = "releases/release.html"
date = 2023-11-16
+++

- [fix] Overflow error of feature sections in quick jump on small screens
- [UX] hide the bottom navigation when the on-screen keyboard is visible (to regain some space)
- [UX] dismiss the on-screen keyboard by tapping anywhere non-interactive

- Chat Feature:
  - Chat Creation flow is now more simplified and accessible, allows you to create DM/Group DM's by selecting user(s) from the new intuitive interface and discard previous side sheet in favor of it.
  - The create chat interface is now more adaptive, meaning it'll adapt to the screen sizes and show bottom sheet (mobile) and dialog (larger screens), when you tap on plus icon in `Chat`.

- [enhancement] After testing for while, we have switched the labs feature for mobile push notifications on by default - you can still disable it in settings
- [enhancement] User will only be asked about notifications after leaving the Activities stream for the first time (not at startup) 
- Calendar Events have returned now. You can now see upcoming and past events in the event section.
- Dashboard Events:
  - You can see upcoming events which have been responded by you in (Yes/Maybe). In calendar, you can do interactions and see events you responded for a specific day by selecting that date.
  - Further you can even select range of dates by long press gesture and see all the responded events falling into it.
- [fix] Events are now correctly showing dates according to locality.
- [fix] Events RSVP status is now shown below and can be updated.

- [Labs] New Push Notifications Feature for mobile Devices
  on iOS and Android, you can now opt into receiving push notifications for new chat messages. You can activate it at Settings -> Labs -> Push Notifications. Don't forget to restart after activating it.
- Encrypted at rest: All Registrations / logins happening from this point forward will automatically encrypt the database and store the session data in the secure enclave of your device ("Keychain" or "Secure Store"). Rendering it impossible for you or others to read any of the data without access to the secured enclave.
- DM's now show the avatar of the user you are talking to, if no avatar was set.
- In Group DMs the Avatar is showing several users you are in the DM with.
- Calendar Events
  - fix bug where end date shows same as start date when event is created.
  - Remove pending status button from event rsvp selection. Events would still show their status as pending if not selected (Yes/Maybe/No).
  - Merge the start/end time and date textfields from create/edit event sheets. Now the date and time textfields will show ranged date and time after selection.
  - Remove unused link input textfields from create/edit event sheets.

- [bugfix] Scrolling issue while linking sub chat to space
- [improvement] Compact view of the space description with show more option in sub-spaces listing of the space 
[Fix] [Android] Member list dialog not closing on physical back button press
[Fix] [General] Chat Message : Tap on the link to open an url
[Fix] [iOS] Chat Screen : Support swipe down to hide the keyboard
[Fix] [Desktop] Disable sending empty messages

- Chats (Create)
  - fix: bug where DM/Group DM avatars do not load correctly after creation in chat room.
  - fix: Hide keyboard when scrolling over the found users list after search.
  - fix: Selecting users in found users list will now automatically make page scroll over to top.
  - `Not Found Users` state will show over the page if there's no user existing comparative to search term.

[Enhancement] Add subspace to the space after it's creation
[Enhancement] Add chats to the space after it's creation
- [new-feature] We need the flag that shows whether a message is the edited version of other.
- [bugfix] Edited message should show the latest body, not original body.
- [new-feature] Timeline-based integration test should be implemented.
- fixes the swipe reply bug on chat messages where right swipe wasn't working before.

- [Enhance] Desktop: Shift+enter will allow jump to new line
- [Enhance] Desktop: Chat options are now accessible from the right click
- [Fix] Auto focus on chat input while swipe to reply
- [Fix] Hide Emoji/Chat options having long pressed and successfully made a reaction
