+++
title = " v1.24.2307"
template = "releases/release.html"
date = 2024-03-07
+++

# Changes since release-latest 
- [fix] Do not block the app just because the server sync deserialization failed.
- Upon initial sync and sync errors show the current state in the Activities tab
- Implement back-off retry (with a max of 5min wait-time) for sync upon server failure

- [enhancement] : Improvement in the user experience of the Event Create and Event Edit Flow
- [enhancement] : Improvement in the user experience of the Event Date and Time selection process
- [new] : Event description now have html editor support
- [feature]: You can now add attachments to Pins. enhancing the ability to share additional content and resources. The main attachment is also visible from just Pin list directly.
- [fix] occasions where create Pins page opened as sidesheet rather than from bottom.

- [new] : You can now include links to Events right into the Updates sent to your space members. Allowing them to easily get access and respond to any upcoming Events right from the Updates screen.
- [fix] Redactions are now applied live when they are received. No more dangeling old objects (e.g. Updates, Events, Pins) in your spaces until a proper relogin but dealing with them on the fly.

- [fix] Redactions are now applied to news post and no more issue related frozen UI after deletion.
- You will now receive a push notification to your mobile device for Updates pushed to spaces you follow. On supported devices it even shows the content including the image of the update in the notification. You can disable receiving those in your push notification settings.
- We've enhanced the render of push notifications for DMs and chat messages including the chat name and user avatar (on supported devices).

- Pins:
  - Includes various improvements on spacing, padding on pin item card .i.e. pins overview and space pins overview.
  - Pin item card in pins overview and space pins overview will show pin content description.

-[feature]: Pins Editing now supports Appflowy in-line editing as default, and have been migrated from Acter labs.

- [fix] show the proper avatar for chats of spaces loaded from remote
- [fix] load the proper avatar for spaces in the space selector (most notably within the updates creation flow)
- [fix] only show the "empty" screen when there are indeed no chats for the space to show

- You can now bookmark chat rooms (via the chat room details page)
- An easier way to search & filter chats: just pull down in the chat rooms list and the filter bar appears. Next to a cleaned up chat search it also features quick-toggles for bookmarked chats and DMs only. The selection made here will be persisted between app restart for convenience;

