+++
title = " Nightly 2023-10-06"
template = "nightlies/release.html"
date = 2023-10-06
+++

- [fix] Remove double naming on crud side sheets (Spaces, Events, Pins).
- [fix] Text overflow fixes on pins card.
- [fix] Text overflow fixes on event card.
- [fix] Text overflow fixes on found spaces card when searched (Join space section).
- [fix] Replace `Redact` term with more known wording .i.e. `Delete/Remove`.
- Login/Registration UI and theme updates.

- move spaces invite functionality to `About` section of overview as a button. The current limit of invitations is 100 people and button will not be visible exceeding that.

- Fix: Parent space in Chat is shown.
- Fix: Invite flow for chat reactivated
- Fix: Joining related chats from a space
- Fix: Setting the power level of members in a space
- UX: Show content of Registration Token
- Removed: Acter welcome screen when the user has no spaces
- Fix: When redacting content, move back to the type index for that space

- Updated look on room profile section. On desktop and larger screens, supports split view opening.
- corrected acter background gradient pattern.
- updated theme on component cards and overall system design to be intuitive.
- fix for avatars not getting fallback properly.
- fix overflow of content in pins, events and spaces cards.

- fix: chat input sends message as a part of reply even if its not meant to be reply (after closing reply UI). This is fixed now.

- CRUD Sidesheets (Spaces, Pins, Events, Chat)
  - [fix] Sidesheets will now properly scroll on smaller screens, enabling to view submit buttons. The buttons will remain stick to bottom.
  - Sidesheet input validation fixes.

- Fix: do not render space-chat under space but switch to chat-section

- Dashboard/Overview:
  - Spaces listing is now prioritized to be shown on top.
  - Fewer joined spaces will now show 'create space' and 'join space' buttons below for easier accessibility. If more than 5 joined spaces, this'll be replaced with 'show all spaces' button.
  - Calendar widget is now removed and will be added when its properly functional.
  - Update theme of UI cards.
- Pins:
  - Remove non functional button (pins filtering).
  - Update theme of section.
- Calendar Events:
  - Calendar events can now be accessed from quick jump actions, showing all events, user is part of.
  - Update theme of section.
- Some layout improvements in card component views.

- You can now directly invite anyone in the invite screen all you need is type their full user-id

